Energy Aware Runtime: EARD
---------------------------
EAR daemon is the EAR component in charge of providing any kind of service that requires privileged capabilities. Current version is conceived as an external process executed with root privileges. The EARD provides three basic services, each one covered by one thread:
- Provides privileged metrics such as average frequency, uncore imc counters to compute the memory bandwith, and energy metrics (DC node, DRAM and package energy)
- Implements a periodic power monitoring service. This service allows EAR to control the total energy consumed in the system
- Implements an external API (implemented through sockets) to accept external requests to change the frequency, modify the current node settings temporally, reload the system configuration (ear.conf), etc.

EARD requirements
-----------------

EARD uses the libcpupower, freeipmi and libpapi (with RAPL component enabled). Paths to these libraries must be specified during the configure process when they are not installed in defaults paths. 

When executed in production, EARD connects with EARDBD [EAR DB Daemon](../database_cache/REAME.md). EARDBD service must be up before starting EARD, otherwise values reported by EARD to the EAR-DB will be lost.

EARD configuration
------------------

EARD is configured by modifying the ear.conf file. Fields used to configure EARD are the following ones: (lines starting with # are comments)

#EARD configuration

#verbose level
NodeDaemonVerbose=1

#frequency used by power monitoing service (in seconds)
NodeDaemonPowermonFreq=10

#maximum p_state supported (1=nominal)
NodeDaemonMaxPstate=1

#turbo frequencies supported 0=no 
NodeDaemonTurbo=0

#port to be used by the remote API
NodeDaemonPort=5000



EARD execution
--------------

EAR includes a set of services to automatically start/stop/reload EAR services. These files are copied at $EAR_INSTALL_PATH/systemd folder when executing make install. To make it system accessible the eard.service must be copied at /etc/systemd/service or the specific path. This operation requires root privileges. 
eard accepts as single parameter the verbose level.

To start/stop/reload EARD, use systemctl commands such as:
$sudo systemctl start eard
$sudo systemctl stop eard
$sudo systemctl reload eard

When using systemctl commands you can check messages reported at the stderr using journalctl. For instance:

$journalctl -u eard -f 

"Follows" the stderr messages generated by EARD.

EARD API
--------
The EARD provides three types of API:
- Local API to be used by [EARL](../library/README.md) (or any other runtime). It can be found in [eard_api.h](eard_api.h). This API uses data types such as applications_t and it is not public. 
- Local API to be used by applications. It is a subset of the EARD api and designed to be used by any applications to contact the privileged metric service offered by EARD. This API doesn't include functions to change the frequency. This API is public and can be used without restrictions. It can be found at (TDB)
- Remote API to be used by the [EAR Global Manager](../global_manager/README.md) or system commands and tools such as the econtrol. It can be found at [eard_rapi.h](eard_rapi.h). It is not a public API. 


EARD basic commands
-------------------

EARD includes some basic commands to be used in the same node eard is running. These commands change/get specific settings in the current node. They are not designaed to be used as system tools, just under development systems. We are offering:

*Commands using the eard local api:
** commands/ear_get_node_freq: Usage: ./ear_get_node_freq num_cpus
** commands/ear_set_ondemand: Usage:ear_set_ondemand cpus|[-h]. Changes the current governor to ondemand
** commands/ear_set_node_freq: Usage: ear_set_node_freq node_freq (in MHz) num_cpus 

* Commands using the remote api (can be connected from a different node) to notify new job/end job. They do the same functionality than EAR slurm plugin does
** commands/ear_new_job:Connects with eard and sends a new_job requests. It automatically reads ear.conf file and sets application details based on environment variables.Only needed when slurm is not installed. 
** commands/ear_end_job: Connects with eard and sends an end_job request. It automatically reads ear.conf file and sets application details based on environmen t variables.  Only needed when slurm is not installed. 

* Commands using the remote api (can be connected from a different node) to change node settings (defaul/max frequencies and th (for min_time))
** commands/ear_set_freq: usage:ear_set_freq new_freq (in KHz)
** commands/ear_inc_th: usage:./ear_inc_th perc to be added to current PerformanceEfficiencyGain (5 means 5%)        
** commands/ear_red_freq: usage:./ear_red_freq p_states 
** commands/ear_set_th: usage:./ear_set_th MinPerformanceEfficiencyGain (75 means 0.75%)

Daemon testing
--------------

Look into the [EAR test folder](../tests/README.md)

