.\" Manpage for ereport.
.TH man 1 "21 September 2018" "1.0" "ereport man page"
.SH NAME
ereport \- Produces a summary of the energy consumption reported by EAR's daemons.
.SH SYNOPSIS
ereport [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
ereport is an administrator command that reports energy consumption data reported by EAR's daemons.

.SH OPTIONS
    -s start_time            indicates the start of the period from which the energy consumed will be computed. Format: YYYY-MM-DD. Default 1970-01-01.
    -e end_time              indicates the end of the period from which the energy consumed will be computed. Format: YYYY-MM-DD. Default: current time.
    -n node_name |all        indicates from which node the energy will be computed. Default: none (all nodes computed) 
                                 'all' option shows all users individually, not aggregated.
    -u user_name |all        requests the energy consumed by a user in the selected period of time. Default: none (all users computed). 
                                 'all' option shows all users individually, not aggregated.
    -t energy_tag|all        requests the energy consumed by energy tag in the selected period of time. Default: none (all tags computed). 
                                 'all' option shows all tags individually, not aggregated.
    -h                       shows the usage options.

.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\"ecreate_database, eenergy_over_time, estore_database
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Lluís Alonso (lluis.alonso@bsc.es)
